# p-center-problem

The stand-alone program vorheur.py solves the p-center area coverage problem. 

Usage Examples:

    python vorheur.py -h
    
    python vorheur.py -p 3 -o belle_outer
    
    python vorheur.py -p 3 -o belle_outer -i belle_pond1,belle_pond2,belle_pond3
    
Description: 

Run the Voronoi heuristic to cover a polygon with p circles such that no circle’s center lies outside the polygon, no circle’s center drops inside a polygonal hole, and the radius of the largest circle is as small as possible.
The outer polygon and hole files must be .kml files (e.g., generated by Google Earth). 

Citation: 

Yanchao Liu (2021). "A faster algorithm for the constrained minimum covering circle problem to expedite solving p-center problems in irregularly shaped area with holes", Naval Research Logistics, in print. 




######### Below is the older version ###########

The program vorheur_rev1.py solves the p-center area coverage problem. The area to be covered must be a polygon defined in a KML file. The input can 
also contain 0, 1 or multiple holes, each being a polygon defined in a separate KML file. 
All input KML files should be in the same path as this program file. 
Through command line arguments, users can try different number of depots (centers) and using different CMCC methods. 

Usage: python vorheur_rev1.py ndepots method read_init_point

Required command line arguments: 

    - ndepots: an integer indicating the number of centers to use
    
    - method: a string (without quote marks), can be Wei, Wei_v2, Liu or Liu2021a
    
    - read_init_point: 0 or 1, 1 means read the pre-sampled starting center points (for reproducibility in paper); 0 means randomly sample starting points
    
Example: python vorheur_rev1.py 5 Liu2021a 1

The outer polygon and hole files must be .kml files (e.g., generated by Google Earth). 
The file names are hardcoded in the string array below. Users can customize them.

Key References: 

    1. Hu Wei, Alan T. Murray, and Ningchuan Xiao. Solving the continuous space p-centre problem: planning application issues. IMA Journal of Management Mathematics, 17(4): 413 - 425, 10 2006.
    
    2. Emo Welzl. Smallest enclosing disks (balls and ellipsoids). In Hermann Maurer, editor, New Results and New Trends in Computer Science, pages 359{370, Berlin, Heidelberg, 1991. Springer Berlin Heidelberg.
    
    3. Atsuo Suzuki and Zvi Drezner. The p-center location problem in an area. Location Science, 4(1):69 - 82, 1996.
    
    4. Nimrod Megiddo. Linear-time algorithms for linear programming in r3 and related problems. SIAM Journal on Computing, 12(4):759-776, 1983. doi: 10.1137/0212052.                                                                                           
    
    5. A working paper by Yanchao Liu, titled "A faster algorithm for the constrained minimum covering circle problem to expedite solving p-center problems in irregularly shaped area with holes"

@author: Yanchao Liu
